As systems have become more and more secure, exploits have had to become more and more specialized. For instance, you may
need to know the following to successfully exploit a system:

1. The operating system;
2. The service pack of the operating system;
3. What ports are open on the target system;
4. What services are running on the target system;
5. What applications are running on the target system; and
6. What language is used on the target system.

Fingerprinting - is the process of enumerating the following attributes of a target:
1. Users
2. Hosts
3. Network Topology
4. Operating Systems
5. Services
The hacker can gather all of this information in a multitude of ways. Generally, our discipline categorizes
these as either active or passive.

Passive Reconnaissance - is the process of learning about the target without ever directly interacting with it.

Active Reconnaissance - as you probably already guessed, is information gathered while actively
interacting with the target.

Password Cracking - is a specialty that—when successful—can render significant rewards to the
practitioner.

Exploitation - If we have failed with password-cracking, the next step is to attempt exploitation. Based on the
information garnered in the reconnaissance phase, we can develop a strategy for exploitation. Exploitation
is usually accomplished because of a flaw in the operating system or application.

Post-Exploitation - is what happens after the hack, or exploitation. The hack gets the attacker inside the
system, but access is generally just the beginning. Post-exploitation can include grabbing passwords,
accessing the database, turning on and accessing the microphone or webcam, etc. It may also include
pivoting to compromise other parts of the network.

Covering Tracks - Once the exploitation is complete, and the post-exploitation havoc has been done (taking or reading
documents, turning on the microphone, pivoting to other systems, etc.), the final task for the hacker is to
cover their tracks.
